# DSC-ITB-Member-Recruitment-Exploration

### Hi there 👋 my name is Anak Agung Ryoma Saputra (NIM:16520381) . You can call me Ryoma. Now, I curently studying at Sekolah Teknik Elektro dan Informatika (STEI) ITB. I am new to code and I am interested to learn Phyton, Latex and web and app dev. My linkedin is www.linkedin.com/in/anak-agung-ryoma-saputra-6859471b8

### I want to explore one of Google Developer Product which is Flutter. From Google, Flutter is Google’s UI toolkit for building beautiful, natively compiled applications for mobile, web, and desktop from a single codebase. I want to use this for making app and website to promote Balinise products and places to Chinese tourist. In 2019, Chinise travelers surpassed Australians travelers as the biggest tourist in Bali, Indonesia. Sadly, Chinise tourists in Bali ussualy just following their travel agency plan and not exploring more. So only few businesses in Bali benefited from Chinese travelers. I want to promote small and local businesses by creating app and website to Chinise travelers. I think this problem can be solved by using Google Developer Product, Flutter.

### The pros of Flutter are fast development, expressive and beautiful UIs, and native performance. With Flutter's hot reload helps quickly and easily experiment, build UIs, add features, and fix bugs faster. This make it possible to make changes to the code and see the results immediately in the app preview, without the need to recompile the code. This way, you can easily fix bugs and experiment with different UI elements and features once you’re at it. With Flutter's built-in beautiful Material Design and Cupertino (iOS-flavor) widgets, rich motion APIs, smooth natural scrolling, and platform awareness, we can make  expressive and beautiful UIs. Flutter also provide full native performance on both iOS and Android. With that pros, many popular app are made with it, for such example are Google Ads, Alibaba, Tencent, New York Times, and SG BusTracker.

### The cons of Flutter is still an immature framework. It has not been around for long, which is why it is still not entirely stable. Flutter apps occupy a lot of space and take longer to download or update. ALso there are no single “guidelines” when it comes to developing Flutter apps, which can be problematic when building more complex software. Dart is also pretty immature. When comparing it to Swift and Kotlin, it has either fewer features or the existing ones are not exactly well-refined. The framework, as well as Dart language, are changing rapidly at times, which can make maintaining the code difficult in the long run. Source: 

### One of alternative product of Flutter is React Native. Created by Facebook, React Native is more mature and stable. It also takes advantage of the most popular programming language, JavaScript, and already has a large community of users and supporters behind it. 

### For now, we can see that Flutter is not mature enough to handle more complex projects. However, it’s a good solution for an MVP or Minimum viable product (especially for startups). It is a common pattern with all relatively new technologies. Essentially, whenever you have an idea for a mobile app but you’re not exactly sure whether it is a good one: build your MVP with Flutter to cut costs, saves time and see your idea in action. If the MVP becomes successful, you should start thinking about turning it into native mobile apps instead. 

### Source: https://flutter.dev/
###         https://www.futuremind.com/blog/pros-cons-flutter-mobile-development
